VIDEO TRANSCRIPT: Matching Your Holland Code to a Major

In this step, if you have an idea of the career you’d like to pursue, you’ll use your Holland Code to 
consider whether your future career choice matches your areas of interest.

People who choose a major or work in a career that matches their dominant type in the Holland Code are 
more likely to be successful and satisfied. 

It’s a good idea to save, download and/or print the Understanding Your Holland Code handout from the 
lesson, as this will help with identifying your match.

Let’s explore the handout in a little more detail. 

Each section corresponds to the six interest areas of your Interest Profiler results. Under each 
interest is a brief description, and then a listing of careers. Each career in this handout relates to 
a major you can study at Davidson-Davie Community College. But please keep in mind that these aren’t 
all of the programs offered by the College.

In the previous step, we learned that my Holland Code was ACS, or Artistic, Conventional, and Social. 
It may help if you mark or circle your interest areas on the handout. I’ve circled mine and can begin 
reviewing the careers under each of my interest areas to determine if I have a match. 

If becoming a teacher is my career choice, I’ll check to see if Teacher is listed in one of the 
categories of my Holland Code. Here it is, located in the Artistic section! 

But let’s say I want to be a paramedic. That career is listed under the Investigative interest—where I 
scored lower—and does not match my Holland Code. So, in this case, if I wanted to be a paramedic my 
future career choice would not match my Holland Code. 

Go ahead and give it a try! Does your career choice appear in the career options listed under your 
Holland Code? If not, remember that these aren’t all of the programs offered at Davidson-Davie. You’ll 
learn more about our programs in the next lesson. 

If you’re undecided on your career choice, it’s OK! At the end of Module 1, you’ll have an opportunity 
to let us know that you’re undecided, and a Career Counselor will contact you to talk more with you 
about your interests and to help you select a major that will be a good fit.

OK, now that you know your Holland Code and can determine whether or not it matches your future career 
interest, you can now use Virtual Job Shadow as a tool to help you research your career choice and 
other careers in which you might be interested. We’ll talk about how in the next step!
